So let's talk about sweet,
sweet, transition modes.
Without transition modes, what you have
is when two things are coming into and
out of the DOM at one time,
there's this awkward moment where both
of them are there at the same time,
even though they're both in
the middle of transitioning.
So what happens is you get this button
effect where one is coming in and
it's still there so
that it's taking up space in the DOM, and
this other one's coming in and
it's kind of doing this jarring effect.
And you can even see this on some sites
where things kind of get jarring,
people haven't paid attention to those
two things in the DOM at once property.
Now, I'm showing you this demo of
these different transition modes, and
you might notice it
says React on the side.
That's because of a Vue developer who
loves transition modes had to work in
React and was like, y'all don't have this?
So he made Transition Group Plus for
React,and the demo is quite good.
So I'm showing it to you with that demo.
But also to say that,
remember in the beginning I said when
frameworks learn from each other,
all developers win because we're
all learning from each other.
Each framework gets better and better.
React borrows from Vue, Vue borrows
from React, and so on and so forth.
So this is a kind of neat thing
that got ported over to React.
Here are the different modes
that are available to you.
In-out, the current element
waits until the new element is
done transitioning in to fire.
Out-in, the current element
transitions out and
then the new element transitions in.
I've almost never found a case for in-out.
Most of the time you want out-in.
Because if you're gonna use a transition
mode, really, you want the current
element to transition out entirely and
wait until the new element transitions in.
So I'm gonna show an example of this.
We use the transition component,
we have a name.
We have this mode, that's out-in.
And then we're wrapping it,
of course, in this v-if, v-else.
So here, if we hover this and replace it,
it looks like it's a card that's flipping.
It looks like one card that's flipping,
but really, it's two elements.
So what's happening here is
the one element is transforming
to this kind of sideways state,
and then it's going away.
And then the next one's coming
in at the sideways state and
flipping all the way over.
So because we're using a transition mode,
it's allowing us to seamlessly
make these two go over.
So you're not seeing them stop and
come in.
And what's really nice about this,
too, is that you're not necessarily
having to coordinate those things.
If I was working with this
without a transition mode,
what I might have to do
is make a false delay.
I would figure out how long I'm
transitioning that first one and
make a delay for
the second one to start coming in.
So I could do that with a callback
to add that component, or
I could do that with these false delays.
But if I change the length of
time that that's animating,
I then have to change all of that
structure of the code, right?
So we're not having to do any
of those kind of clunky bits.
Now if we didn't have it at all,
they happen at the same time.
And if they happen at the same time,
it just kind of looks, clunk.
Because one of them is transitioning but
the other one is transitioning in.
And so what you're seeing is
just them flip and that's it.
So here we've got flip-enter-active.
We've got flip-leave-active,
and we've got some transforms.
Like I mentioned, we're transforming
the scale y to 0, and the opacity to 0.